0:00
An important step in a production RAG system is cleaning up user-submitted prompts.
0:05
RAG systems are often deployed in contexts where the end user expects to interact with an LLM in
0:11
a conversational manner, as though they're chatting with another person. As a result,
0:17
human-written LLM prompts make for bad search queries. Rather than feeding those prompts
0:23
directly to the vector database, the retriever can parse the prompt to identify its intent and
0:30
edit, rewrite, or entirely transform the prompt to optimize it for retrieval.
0:36
There's a variety of query parsing techniques used, so let's look at a few of them.
0:41
The simplest and by far most widely used solution to messy prompts is using an LLM to rewrite the
0:49
query before it's submitted to the retriever. For example, consider a RAG system built around
0:54
a knowledge base of medical information. You might set up an LLM as a query rewriter
1:00
with the following prompt. The following prompt was submitted by a user in order to query a database
1:06
of medical documents linking symptoms to diagnoses. Rewrite the prompt to optimize it for searching
1:13
the database by doing the following. Clarify ambiguous phrases, use medical terminology
1:19
where applicable, add synonyms that increase the odds of finding matching documents, remove
1:25
unnecessary or distracting information, and then you insert the user prompt. A patient might submit
1:32
the prompt, I was out walking my dog, a beautiful black lab named Poppy, when she raced away from me
1:39
and yanked on her leash hard while I was holding it. Three days later, my shoulder is still numb
1:45
and my fingers are all pins and needles. What's going on? This prompt clearly isn't optimized for
1:51
retrieval. Here's the rewritten prompt after it's passed through the query rewriter. Experience a
1:58
sudden forceful pull on the shoulder resulting in persistent shoulder numbness and finger numbness
2:04
for three days. What are the potential causes or diagnoses such as neuropathy or nerve impingement?
2:11
This new prompt removes unnecessary information, clarifies ambiguity, and even uses some medical
2:18
terminology that may increase the odds of finding a match in the knowledge base. While you can
2:25
and should iterate on the prompt you use for query rewriting, in general the benefits you gain from
2:30
it are substantial and easily justify the additional costs of the LLM call needed to clean
2:36
up each prompt. While basic query rewriting is usually the only query parsing technique you'll
2:42
need to consider, more advanced techniques do exist. For example, named entity recognition is a
2:49
technique for recognizing categories of information in the query like places, people, dates, fictional
2:57
characters, and so forth. This information can then be used to inform either the vector search
3:03
performed by the retriever or the metadata filtering done later in the process. An example here is for a
3:10
model called Gliner which is a general named entity recognition model. You can give it a piece
3:16
of text and then a list of types of entities you wish for it to identify like people or dates.
3:24
The model will analyze the query and return a labeled query with identifications of those
3:29
categories. In this particular example, I've provided some input text and told the Gliner
3:35
model to try and label any mentions of a person, books, locations, dates, actors, and characters.
3:43
In the response, you can see that it's labeled any time it sees these different entities.
3:48
This is a very efficient model and we can run this every time a query comes in,
3:52
including this step adds a little bit of added latency but the quality of the retrieval now can
3:57
be significantly improved as a result of this. Another advanced query parsing technique is
4:03
called hypothetical document embeddings or HIDE. This approach refines a search query by generating
4:10
a hypothetical document that would be the ideal result of the search process. For example, if
4:17
you're attempting to retrieve information on that earlier medical question, an LLM would be used to
4:22
generate a hypothetical document about shoulder and hand numbness resulting from a rapid pull.
4:29
Then that hypothetical document is embedded and its vector representation is what is actually
4:35
used to complete the search. The idea here is that you're helping the retriever understand
4:42
not just the intent of the prompt or question but what a high quality result would look like.
4:48
Normally, a retriever needs to match prompts to documents, so to some degree the retriever is
4:53
matching dissimilar types of text or apples to oranges. By generating a hypothetical document,
4:59
the retriever is now comparing more similar text, a hypothetical perfect document, and the documents
5:06
actually contained in the knowledge base. In practice, HIDE actually provides performance
5:12
improvements at the cost of some added latency in the search and some computational resources to
5:18
run the LLM that generates the hypothetical documents. In my experience, having some kind
5:24
of query parsing is a key piece of your RAG system. In almost every case, basic query rewriting,
5:32
just using a nicely prompted LLM to do basic touch-ups on user submitted prompts,
5:38
is the right approach. More advanced techniques like using Named Entity Recognition,
5:43
HIDE, and others may provide additional benefits, but they can be more complex to run and won't
5:50
necessarily yield better results. Experiment with these advanced techniques and let the
5:55
results decide how your project needs to evolve.