0:00
The semantic search techniques you've seen so far all use a vanilla architecture. Each document and
0:06
prompt are assigned a single vector, which are compared to find documents or chunks that are
0:11
similar to the prompt. While this approach yields great results, even higher quality retrieval is
0:18
possible with more sophisticated architectures. Let's look at two of those, the cross encoder
0:24
and Colbert, and consider their pros and cons. The architecture you've seen throughout this
0:30
course to power semantic search is called a bi-encoder. The documents are each assigned
0:36
a semantic vector by an embedding model. When a prompt is received, it too is embedded to a vector.
0:43
Then, an approximate nearest neighbors algorithm is used by a vector database to rapidly identify
0:50
documents whose vectors are close to the prompt vector. The term bi-encoder refers to the fact
0:57
that the documents and prompt are embedded separately. This is important because it means
1:04
all the documents can be embedded ahead of time, and only the prompt itself needs to be embedded
1:10
after it's received, significantly speeding up search. If you're willing to give up some of the
1:15
speed, however, you can get even higher quality search results. Let's start with the cross encoder,
1:22
which can provide significantly higher quality document rankings than bi-encoders.
1:28
To score a document, a cross encoder concatenates the document with the prompt, and then passes the
1:36
combined text into what is essentially a specialized embedding model. Since both the prompt and document
1:43
are in the input, this allows the model to understand deep contextual interactions between
1:48
the prompt and document text that a bi-encoder might miss. The cross encoder is designed to then
1:55
directly output a relevancy score, usually a number between 0 and 1. You can think of this score as the
2:03
probability of a positive match between the prompt and the document. Here's a cross encoder in action.
2:10
Say you have three documents in the knowledge base, and you receive the prompt,
2:14
great places to eat in New York. The cross encoder concatenates the prompt to the front of each
2:21
document. Each prompt document pair is then passed through the cross encoder, which outputs a
2:27
probability of a match between the prompt and the document. If this is a well-trained cross encoder,
2:34
you'd expect the first document to score pretty well, say 0.7 or 70 percent, since the document is
2:41
fairly relevant to the prompt. You then repeat this process for each document, concatenating the
2:46
prompt to the front, passing the prompt document pair through the cross encoder architecture,
2:53
and generating a score. A cross encoder will almost always provide better search results
2:59
when compared to a bi-encoder, as measured by common metrics like search relevance.
3:05
The main issue with cross encoders is that they scale terribly. Your knowledge base can easily
3:11
have millions or potentially billions of documents, meaning that for every single prompt, you'd need to
3:17
run billions of document prompt pairs through the cross encoder to generate each document's
3:24
relevancy score. You also can't do any pre-processing to speed things up, since cross encoders run on a
3:31
prompt document pair, and you won't have the prompt until a user submits it. Cross encoders are too
3:38
inefficient to use as a default search technique, but the quality of the results makes them a great
3:44
tool for improving the results of other search techniques, something you'll explore a bit later
3:50
in this course. Some techniques try to split the difference between the speed of bi-encoders and the
3:57
quality of cross encoders. So let's look at one final architecture gaining popularity known as
4:03
COBEAR. COBEAR stands for contextualized late interaction over BERT. The idea of COBEAR is that
4:12
you still generate document vectors ahead of time, like in a bi-encoder, but try to capture deeper
4:19
interactions between the text of the prompt and each document, like cross encoder. To start, each
4:26
document in the knowledge base is embedded, but instead of generating one semantic vector for the
4:31
entire document, you generate one semantic vector for each token in the document. A document with
4:38
a thousand tokens therefore needs to be converted to a thousand dense vectors. When a prompt comes in,
4:45
it's embedded in the same way, resulting in one dense vector for each token in the prompt. Now, the
4:53
idea behind scoring in COBEAR is that each token in the prompt tries to find its most similar token
5:01
in the document. Let's look at an example to see how that works. Let's use the same four documents
5:07
and prompt from before, Great Places to Eat in New York, and see how the first document is scored.
5:14
First, the algorithm finds the vector distance, or in other words, a similarity score between each
5:20
pair of tokens from the document and the prompt. If the prompt has 10 tokens and the document has
5:26
100, the result is a grid of a thousand pairs of similarity scores. This creates a grid of how
5:33
relevant each document token is to a prompt token. For example, the tokens New and York from the
5:40
prompt would match well with New York and City from the document, while Eat would match favorably
5:48
with Cuisine. Each prompt token will have a document token with which it has the highest
5:54
relevancy score. These maximum scores are summed up to get one relevancy score for the overall
6:01
document. This is known as the max sim score. Repeating this process for every document in the
6:09
knowledge base allows all documents to be scored and the most relevant documents to be retrieved.
6:15
Colbert provides both the scalability of a bi-encoder and much of the rich interaction
6:21
between prompts and documents found in a cross-encoder. While the computation required
6:27
to score each document prompt pair is more computationally taxing than in a bi-encoder,
6:34
it's still reasonably fast and possible to use in contexts where real-time or close to real-time
6:41
search is necessary. The biggest drawback of the Colbert architecture is that the number of vectors
6:48
you need to store increases proportionally to the tokens in both prompts and documents.
6:54
If you have a 2,000 token document, you would need to store 2,000 vectors. In a bi-encoder,
7:02
you'd only need to store a single dense vector. The standard bi-encoder model provides reasonably
7:08
good quality, great speed, and requires minimal vector storage space. This set of attributes
7:15
make it the default architecture for semantic search. Cross-encoders provide the gold standard
7:20
when it comes to search quality, but they're so slow that it's infeasible to use them as a default
7:26
search technique. Colbert provides nearly the quality of a cross-encoder, but at speeds much
7:33
closer to a bi-encoder. And the cost of this trade-off is that it requires storing orders
7:39
of magnitude more vector data. Increasingly, vector databases are providing support for Colbert
7:45
or similar approaches, especially for projects that require precision and deep contextual
7:51
understanding. For example, in the legal or medical fields, the trade-off of significantly
7:57
increased vector storage memory footprint for search quality may be worth it. Cross-encoders
8:03
are too computationally expensive to be used on their own for search, but luckily, they don't
8:09
need to be. Join me in the next video and let's see how cross-encoders are integrated into production
8:14
retrieval systems despite their significant inefficiencies.