0:00
Throughout this module, you'll deep dive on several different search techniques,
0:04
but it can be useful to have a mental model of the overall system. With that in mind,
0:09
let's start this module with a high-level look at a retriever's architecture and how each component
0:15
within it works together. When a rack system receives your prompt, it's first sent to the
0:20
retriever. The retriever will have access to the knowledge base, which you can think of as just a
0:25
bunch of text files sitting in a database. The retriever needs to quickly decide which documents
0:31
are most relevant to the prompt and return them so they can be passed to the LLM. Most modern
0:37
retrievers use two different search techniques as a part of this process. The first is a more
0:43
traditional keyword search. This means the retriever looks for documents that contain
0:49
the exact words found in the prompt. This approach is time-tested and has powered information
0:56
retrieval systems for decades. The second approach is a semantic search. This means the retriever
1:03
looks for documents that have a similar meaning to the prompt. This approach makes the retriever
1:09
more flexible as it allows it to find documents that are relevant to the prompt but might not
1:15
contain the exact words the user included in their prompt. Each search technique will be used
1:20
to return a collection of documents, perhaps 20 to 50 documents each. Usually, there will be many
1:27
documents that appear in both lists, but because the style of search is different, they might be
1:33
ranked higher in one than the other. At this point, each list is filtered down based on their metadata.
1:40
For example, some documents in your knowledge base may be relevant to members of your engineering
1:45
team and others are more relevant to people working in HR. The system would know what team
1:51
the user is a member of and apply a metadata filter at this point to ensure only the documents
1:56
relevant to that department are allowed to move forward. Now, the retriever has two filtered lists.
2:03
One generated with a keyword search and the other with a semantic search. These two lists are now
2:11
combined to create a final ranking of the most relevant documents. The retriever returns the top
2:17
ranked documents from this final list and at this point, the retrieval is complete. The documents
2:24
are sent along to be added to the augmented prompt. This style of search is called hybrid search
2:31
because it relies on multiple techniques to produce its final document ranking.
2:36
Each technique provides benefits that contribute to the overall performance of the retriever.
2:42
Keyword search ensures the system is sensitive to the exact words the user included in the prompt.
2:48
Semantic search gives the system more flexibility to find documents whose meaning is similar to the
2:55
prompt, even if they don't use the same words. Metadata filtering allows the system to exclude
3:01
documents based on rigid criteria in a way that neither of the other approaches allows.
3:08
Designing a high performing retriever means understanding the relative strengths of each
3:13
of these techniques and then tuning the balance between them to align with the needs of your
3:19
project. With that in mind, let's start diving in on each of these three techniques,
3:24
beginning with the simplest of the three, metadata filtering.