0:00
Metadata filtering is the most straightforward and likely the most familiar technique used inside of a retriever.
0:05
Let's have a look at how it's used, and what particular benefits it brings to how the retriever works.
0:12
Metadata filtering uses rigid criteria to narrow down the documents returned by a retriever,
0:17
based on the document's metadata.
0:19
This metadata might be information, like a document's title, author, creation date, access privileges, and so forth.
0:27
Here's a simple example of how it works.
0:30
Suppose you work at a newspaper, and want to build a retriever for articles written over the history of your paper.
0:37
The knowledge base would contain thousands of different articles.
0:40
Each article is tagged with multiple pieces of metadata, including its title, the date the article was published, the author of the article,
0:49
which section of the newspaper the article appeared in, and so forth.
0:53
While the full text of each article lives somewhere in the knowledge base, the system can only search for articles based on this metadata.
1:00
Querying this kind of index looks a lot like writing a SQL query.
1:05
If you only filtered based on one piece of metadata, you could find every article published on a given day,
1:12
or even every article written by a particular author.
1:16
You could also write more complex queries and filter on multiple pieces of metadata.
1:21
For example, you could find all of the articles written for the opinion section between June and July of 2024 by your favorite journalist.
1:32
Only articles that meet every condition would be returned, and the rest of the articles would be filtered out.
1:38
If you've ever filtered a table in a spreadsheet, you've already done metadata filtering.
1:43
You're just using a strict set of criteria to determine which members of a larger collection of data you want to use.
1:49
Inside of a typical RAC system, you won't use metadata filtering to perform retrieval,
1:54
but rather to help narrow down results returned by other retrieval techniques.
2:00
The filters themselves also usually aren't determined by what the user said in the prompt,
2:05
but rather other attributes of the user making the request.
2:09
For example, consider the newspaper example from before.
2:12
Say some of your articles are published freely to the open internet, and others can only be accessed by paid subscribers.
2:20
Each article could have a piece of metadata storing whether it is a free or paid article.
2:26
When a user searches a database, the system can detect whether they're signed in as a paid subscriber.
2:32
If not, then a metadata filter would be set to exclude paid articles from search results.
2:38
Similarly, if your newspaper prints articles in many regions of the world,
2:43
each article could have a piece of metadata storing the region where the article was published.
2:48
When a reader queries the system, you can detect in which region they're located and only return articles from their region.
2:56
Metadata filtering has a number of advantages.
2:59
Firstly, it's conceptually simple, making it easy to understand how the system works and debug issues.
3:06
Second, it's a fast, mature, and well-optimized approach.
3:11
Finally, and perhaps most importantly,
3:14
it's the only approach that allows your system to decide whether documents are retrieved based on rigid criteria.
3:21
If you want to strictly define what kinds of documents should or should not be included in the retrieval,
3:27
metadata filtering is the only approach that can give you that behavior.
3:32
That said, metadata filtering has significant limitations.
3:36
It's not really a search technique, so much as it is a tool for refining the results of the other two techniques you'll see in this module.
3:44
It's overly rigid, ignores a document's content, and lacks any way of ranking documents once they've passed the filter.
3:52
While it's very likely that RAC systems you build will include metadata filters of some kind,
3:57
building a retriever that relied exclusively on metadata filtering would be essentially useless.
4:03
Metadata filtering is simple and effective, but needs to be paired with other search techniques in order to provide real value.
4:11
In particular, you'll need a way to determine if a document's contents are actually relevant to your prompt.
4:17
So join me in the next video to see how keyword search addresses some of these needs.