0:00
LLMs are remarkable tools. They can answer questions, summarize and rewrite text, provide feedback on documents, generate code, and much more.
0:09
These types of tasks seemed out of reach for computers just a few years ago, and interacting with one can feel a lot like working with another person.
0:17
RAG is an approach that further improves the performance of large language models by giving them access to information that they don't know from their training.
0:27
To help highlight that idea, let's look at a few examples.
0:30
Suppose I asked you the question, why are hotels expensive on the weekend?
0:35
You can probably answer that question. More people travel on weekends, so there's more competition for rooms.
0:42
Now, suppose I asked you, why are hotels in Vancouver super expensive this coming weekend?
0:48
You'll need more information to answer this one.
0:51
If you searched online, you might find that international superstar Taylor Swift is in town this weekend for a two-night residency.
0:58
With that additional information, you again probably could answer the question.
1:03
Finally, suppose I asked you, why doesn't Vancouver have more hotel capacity close to downtown?
1:10
To answer this question, you'd probably need to do some deep research into the history of Vancouver's development, urban planning in general, and so forth.
1:19
In other words, you'd need access to a lot of specialized information.
1:23
You can think of the way you'd respond to these questions as two phases.
1:28
First, you collect any necessary information, and then you reason over that information to develop your response.
1:36
As you saw with the first question, sometimes you don't need to collect any information.
1:41
Based on your knowledge of the world, you're ready to respond right away.
1:45
Other times, though, you might need to collect a little bit or even a lot of information.
1:50
In RAG, the process of collecting useful information is called retrieval.
1:56
And the process of reasoning over that information and responding is called generation.
2:03
LLMs benefit from the retrieval stage for basically the same reasons you do.
2:08
You'll learn more about LLMs throughout this course.
2:12
But for now, you can think of them as kind of like a person that has a wide variety of general knowledge from reading huge chunks of the Internet.
2:21
When you prompt an LLM, it relies on this knowledge to generate a response.
2:25
For many prompts, this works great.
2:27
In other cases, though, the LLM doesn't know the information it needs to respond accurately.
2:33
The prompt might be about a very recent event or some specialized information it hasn't previously seen.
2:41
Just as was true with you, it's unreasonable to expect LLMs to be experts on every topic.
2:47
And they provide much better responses when they have access to better information.
2:51
Recognizing that LLMs also benefit from a retrieval phase is the core idea of RAG.
2:58
Of course, LLMs aren't people who spend a lot of time on Wikipedia.
3:02
Instead, they're mathematical models that have been trained on massive data sets taken from all over the open Internet.
3:09
During the training process, the model learns any information contained in the training data.
3:14
When you send a prompt to an LLM, you're hoping information relevant to your question was included in the training data, ideally many times.
3:23
Unfortunately, lots of information won't be included.
3:26
Companies keep private databases.
3:29
Some information is just hidden or hard to access.
3:32
And with news being published every minute of the day, there will always be information out there that an LLM wasn't trained on.
3:40
The question then is, how do you make sure the LLM knows this useful information?
3:46
The short answer, just put it in the prompt.
3:49
The key idea of a RAG system is that you can modify a prompt before sending it to the large language model.
3:57
In addition to the user's original question, you can add in information that helps the LLM respond.
4:03
If you asked a RAG system, why are hotels in Vancouver super expensive this weekend?
4:08
It would first perform a retrieval step to gather relevant information.
4:13
The language model would then be provided an augmented prompt that includes both the original question and any retrieved information.
4:22
Now, the LLM has the information it needs to respond accurately.
4:27
Of course, this information needs to be retrieved from somewhere.
4:30
The component of a RAG system that handles this process is called a retriever.
4:35
The retriever manages a knowledge base of trusted, relevant, and possibly private information.
4:42
When the RAG system receives a prompt, the retriever finds and retrieves the most relevant information from the knowledge base to share with the LLM.
4:52
The model then uses that retrieved information when it responds to the prompt.
4:57
The name Retrieval Augmented Generation, which is admittedly a mouthful, hopefully now makes more sense.
5:06
All you're doing is improving or augmenting the way an LLM generates text by first retrieving relevant information from a knowledge base.
5:16
This is a high-level description of how RAG works, but sometimes it can be more useful to see some example applications.
5:23
So join me in the next video where I'll talk through some ways RAG is already used.