0:00
As you just saw, the core idea of RAG is to pair an off-the-shelf LLM with a knowledge base of information it might not have had access to when it was trained.
0:08
Many LLM-powered systems implement this model, so let's explore a few of them now.
0:14
One important application of RAG is for code generation.
0:18
This is significant, because while language models have been trained on lots of code, conceivably every public Git repository, generating correct code for a specific project requires specialized information.
0:32
The LLM needs to know the classes, functions, and definitions in the project, as well as the overall coding style being used.
0:41
Building a RAG system that uses your own code base as the knowledge base makes this information available to an LLM.
0:49
By retrieving relevant classes, definitions, and files from your repository, an LLM is much better able to generate code or answer questions relevant to your project.
1:00
Another major application is customizing chatbots to an individual company.
1:06
Every company has its own products, policies, and communication guidelines.
1:11
Treating these enterprise documents as a knowledge base allows you to deploy LLMs in a variety of useful ways.
1:19
You could build a customer service chatbot that knows information about your company's products, current inventory, or common troubleshooting steps.
1:28
You could deploy an internal chatbot that accurately answers questions about company policies or direct you towards useful documentation.
1:37
In either case, the knowledge base helps ground the LLM's responses in your company's specific products or policies, and helps minimize instances where the LLM generates generic or misleading responses.
1:50
RAG has significant applications in healthcare and legal domains.
1:55
In these instances, the knowledge base might contain legal documents from a particular case, text from recently published medical journals, and so forth.
2:03
In fields like these, in which precision is imperative and the amount of niche and potentially private information is vast,
2:11
a RAG-based approach might be the only way to deploy an LLM-based product that is sufficiently accurate and uses private information.
2:19
Another major application is an AI-assisted web search.
2:24
Historically, search engines have worked like a retriever. Given a search query, they return relevant websites.
2:31
Today, search engines will provide AI summaries of these search results to quickly present the most useful information in a skimmable way.
2:41
These AI web summaries are basically a RAG system whose knowledge base is the entire Internet.
2:48
While large-scale RAG systems can be powerful, the same is true for highly personalized ones.
2:54
Personalized assistants in your text messages, email client, word processor, calendar, and so forth are now able to help you send messages,
3:03
organize your schedule, draft documents, and complete projects big and small.
3:09
In each case, the more context the LLM has about the project you're working on, the better they're able to support that work.
3:17
In these cases, the knowledge base might be relatively small. For example, your text messages, contact lists, emails, or a folder of documents.
3:26
These kinds of documents are dense with important context, so a RAG system with access to this small-scale personal information
3:33
can complete tasks in a way that is significantly more relevant to what you're doing.
3:38
As you can see, the RAG model has applicability in a wide variety of contexts.
3:43
Many companies, organizations, and even you have collections of information that can be used to enhance the quality of text generated by an LLM.
3:53
Whenever you have access to information that likely wasn't used to train a large-language model,
3:59
there is a potential for building a useful RAG application.
4:03
They might even allow LLMs to be used in contexts that were otherwise impossible.
4:08
As you continue through this course, hopefully you'll start seeing opportunities in your work and life where a RAG approach would be useful.
4:16
For now though, join me in the next video and let's dive deeper into the architecture of a RAG system.