0:00
Production environments put entirely new strains on your RAG system, and navigating those challenges
0:05
requires a different set of skills than is required when prototyping. To start this module,
0:11
let's just review what new challenges your system will face once it's being used by actual customers.
0:17
The first set of challenges you'll encounter in production simply arise from scaling up more
0:23
traffic. More users constrain the throughput of your system, whether it's how many requests
0:29
they can handle at once, or the latency between receiving a request and returning a reply. More
0:35
requests also means more memory and compute usage, which eventually means higher costs. Keeping up
0:42
raw system performance at scale can be challenging. A second category of challenges comes from the
0:48
variety and unpredictability of prompts your system will receive once it's in the hands of
0:53
your users. Even with rigorous testing, it's difficult to predict every type of request your
0:58
RAG system will receive. You may find your system struggling on some of these new requests, even if
1:04
it performed well on pre-launch testing. Another challenge in production is just that real world
1:09
data is often a mess. It's not uncommon for data to be fragmented, poorly formatted, missing metadata,
1:17
and so forth. A lot of data also isn't even in a text format at all, but instead is found in images,
1:24
PDFs, and slide decks. If you want to include this data in your knowledge base, you'll need a way to
1:30
access it. Security and privacy issues are also a concern. A lot of RAG systems are deployed expressly
1:37
because the data in your knowledge base is private or proprietary. Ensuring the data remains private
1:43
while allowing authorized users to access it when using your RAG system is important functionality.
1:49
On top of all these challenges, the biggest issue with production is that mistakes can have real
1:55
business impact, whether financial or reputational. When Google first launched its AI Search Summaries
2:03
feature, it responded to some prompt by advising users eat rocks for the nutritional benefits they
2:10
provided. When Google investigated the cause of this issue, it turned out that a user had asked,
2:16
how many rocks should I eat? An admittedly silly and hard to predict question. When the system
2:23
retrieved information on the question, many of the articles or forum conversations it found were
2:28
comical, but the system failed to recognize that fact. Google subsequently fixed this issue and
2:35
even wrote a blog post explaining the source of the bug. But they're far from the only company to
2:41
run into trouble after launching an LLM-based product. Airline chatbots have promised well-meaning
2:47
customers discounts that don't actually exist. Malicious actors will try to trick your RAG system
2:53
to sell them your product for free or reveal secret information. Production is simply a
2:59
challenging environment for your RAG system to operate in. And so having systems in place to
3:04
anticipate problems before they happen, track them down when they do, and verify that changes you
3:11
make lead to real improvements is critical. There's a variety of techniques you can use to address
3:17
all of these production challenges. Join me in the next video to see the first of these,
3:22
building a robust observability system.