0:00
A good first step to handling production challenges is building a robust observability system.
0:05
To start, let's look at the different components it should include.
0:09
An observability platform needs to track a few different kinds of information.
0:14
First, it should track common software performance metrics like latency, throughput, memory,
0:21
and compute usage. As with almost any production software system, you'll want to know how many
0:27
requests your system is handling, how long it takes, and how many resources it's consuming.
0:34
Next, you'll need to track a variety of quality metrics. Quality here could mean everything from
0:40
user satisfaction with the final replies they receive to the recall of your retriever. Beyond
0:47
knowing how quickly or efficiently your system is operating, you'll want to know if the final
0:52
results meet the quality standards you've set. It also matters how this information is collected
0:59
and reported. Your system should capture aggregate statistics over time to help you track high-level
1:05
trends in performance and quickly identify regressions. Separately, the system should record
1:12
detailed logs. These will allow you to trace the journeys of individual prompts through your RAG
1:18
pipeline, particularly useful when you're trying to understand the source of poorly performing
1:23
responses. Finally, your evaluation system should ideally enable experimentation. If you're
1:29
considering switching to a new language model, adjusting a system prompt, or tweaking the settings
1:36
on your retriever, you want to either run customized experiments in a secure environment
1:42
or A-B test changes with users in production. The ability to monitor the impact on performance
1:49
and quality metrics is what should ultimately help you decide if you want to move these experiments
1:55
into your production system. With that high-level structure in mind, let's look at the specific
2:01
metrics you'll want to track. A good framework for thinking through all these is scope and evaluator
2:07
type. Scope here means whether an evaluation is targeting a component of your RAG system
2:14
or the overall system. Evaluator type, meanwhile, asks whether the eval is code-based, uses LLM as a
2:23
judge, or relies on human feedback. You can think of these two dimensions forming a grid with the
2:30
evals you choose living in one of the resulting squares. Let's explore each dimension and then
2:37
look at where some common evals fall within that grid. Let's start with eval scope. System-level
2:43
evals are usually for summarizing overall system performance or giving a high-level view of how
2:50
things are going. Component-level evals, meanwhile, help you debug the source of individual issues.
2:57
For example, you might track the latency on your overall system and find that it's too high. In
3:03
order to track down the source of that issue, however, you need component-level evals to track
3:08
whether the retriever, your LLM, or another component entirely is ultimately causing the
3:14
problem. Evaluator type focuses on how the evaluation is generated. Code-based evals are the cheapest,
3:21
simplest, and most straightforward to implement. This could be everything from just recording the
3:26
number of prompts your system processes a second to running unit tests to ensure your LLM is
3:32
outputting valid JSON. What matters here is that these evals can be run automatically, are
3:39
deterministic, and are nearly free to run. On the other hand of the spectrum is human feedback and
3:45
evaluation. One common example is users of your application marking responses with a thumbs up
3:51
or thumbs down. Even if it doesn't give you a lot of detailed information, the fact that more users
3:57
mark your responses with thumbs down is a useful indication that you have a problem to fix. You
4:03
might give users a text box to give more detailed feedback as well. Other evals can be run
4:08
automatically but depend on human input at the outset. For example, you can have humans pre-compile
4:15
data sets of the prompt and the relevant documents that should be retrieved. Once that data set is
4:20
compiled, you can rapidly calculate common metrics like precision and recall. But it's worth remembering
4:27
that at some point a human needed to compile that initial test data set. In general, human feedback
4:34
and annotation is a more costly approach but it captures the information that code-based evals
4:41
will miss. LLM as a judge tries to split the difference by using a language model to grade
4:48
different components of your system's performance. For example, an LLM might determine whether the
4:54
documents retrieved by a retriever are actually relevant to the user's prompt. LLM as a judge is
5:00
more flexible than code-based evals and cheaper than human feedback. LLM as a judge still needs
5:07
to be carefully tuned however. Models can have biases and favor responses generated by a model
5:14
from their own family. They also need clear rubrics and typically perform best with discrete standards
5:21
like relevant or irrelevant rather than a grading on a scale from 0 to 100. Let's see how all of
5:28
these different evaluation concepts can be put together into a simple but comprehensive set of
5:33
metrics you could start out collecting. A good idea to start is to collect both software performance
5:38
and quality metrics for each major component and then the overall system. System performance
5:45
metrics like latency, throughput, memory usage, or tokens generated per second are code-based evals
5:53
making them cheap and easy to collect. You can readily capture this data at both the component
5:59
and system-wide level. For quality metrics, you typically will need to rely on techniques that use
6:05
human annotation or LLM as a judge. For system-wide quality metrics, you can allow users to give you
6:13
thumbs up or thumbs down on generated responses, giving you feedback on overall response quality.
6:19
For evaluating a retriever, you could spend the time to compile a human annotated test data set
6:24
of prompt and expected retrieved documents, allowing you to calculate common metrics like
6:30
recall and precision. To evaluate LLM quality, you'll typically use LLM-based evals like those
6:36
found in the Ragas library to assess things like response relevancy, the quality of citations,
6:42
or how well the LLM is ignoring irrelevant retrieved information. An approach like this
6:48
gives you visibility into both the performance and quality of your overall system and individual
6:55
components. It also captures a nice balance of cheap evals like latency and more expensive metrics
7:02
that rely on human annotation or LLM calls. From there, you can decide which additional areas you'd
7:08
like to look more closely at. That's a quick high-level look at what components a RAG observability
7:14
system should include and trade-offs that go into designing it. Join me in the next video
7:20
and let's take a closer look at some of the considerations that arise
7:24
when you actually go to implement this system.