0:00
Creating a custom dataset of prompts your system has received allows you to both deeply understand
0:05
how your system performed in the past, and then run experiments to see how a redesign
0:11
of your system might change performance on real-world prompts.
0:15
Let's look at how to build one of those.
0:18
A customized dataset is just a collection of prompts your system has previously processed,
0:24
as well as any information you choose to collect about that prompt's journey through your system.
0:29
You could choose to save just the initial prompt and final response, or you could add tons of
0:35
information to your custom dataset, like which documents your vector database retrieved, the way
0:41
those documents were ranked before and after your re-ranker, the output of your query rewriter,
0:47
and so on and so forth.
0:50
With so much flexibility, an important decision when building a custom dataset
0:55
is what data do I store? The simple answer is, what do you want to evaluate?
1:01
For example, you'll almost certainly want to save the input prompt submitted by users,
1:07
and the final responses generated by your rack system.
1:11
These two basic data points give some sense of system performance,
1:16
and would let you track how responses change with edits to prompts.
1:20
That information, however, really only helps with end-to-end evaluation.
1:25
If you want to do component-level evaluations to know how well your retriever, re-ranker,
1:30
or query rewriter are performing, you'll need to save the input and output data used by each
1:36
of those components. Typically, you'll want to have these detailed component-level steps recorded,
1:43
and as a result, the tables used for logging calls to a rack system can easily have dozens
1:49
of columns, storing everything from the ID of the customer who made the call, to the text chunks
1:55
your re-ranker sifted through, to the output of each router LLM in your Agentech workflow.
2:01
Storing a wide variety of data like this allows you to analyze each component of the system
2:07
individually, and examine performance across many dimensions.
2:11
For example, if you're building a customer service chatbot, you could filter by question topic
2:16
to detect that questions about refunds are receiving high-quality responses,
2:21
but questions about product delays are not performing well at all.
2:26
When you go to investigate why those product delay-related prompts led to low-quality responses,
2:32
you might be able to analyze the logs to detect that your retriever isn't able to find many
2:37
relevant documents for those prompts. Maybe you need to add more relevant information to
2:42
your knowledge base. If you build the right observability system in place, you'll be able
2:47
to detect problems, pinpoint their sources, and feel confident that solutions are working.
2:55
Let me share one example of this from my own career. I was working on a specialized rack
3:00
system that had the ability to generate text, images, and code back charts and diagrams using
3:08
Mermaid.js. We started to receive complaints that the quality of some of the diagrams generated by
3:15
the system was quite low. Working backwards through our logs, we realized that many of these issues
3:22
arose when users asked the system to draw a diagram. The router language model misinterpreted
3:29
this prompt and so sent it to the text-to-image model used for image generation. These models are
3:37
pretty good at generating images of people or things, but pretty bad at generating charts.
3:43
Once we realized the source of the problem, we were able to update the system prompt for the
3:48
router LLM so that those prompts would create code-backed charts and not generated images.
3:55
Thanks to a robust monitoring and logging system, once we received customer reports of the issue,
4:01
it was straightforward to track down its source and quickly get a fix into production. While
4:07
sometimes you'll want to track down poorly performing individual prompts like this, once
4:12
you're logging lots of data, you'll often want to visualize it. This can let you identify high-level
4:19
trends in the performance of the overall system or of each component. For example, you could
4:25
visualize all of the input prompts that go through your system and use some sort of clustering
4:30
algorithm to identify the high-level topics your customers are asking about, like product launches
4:36
or troubleshooting questions. If you can differentiate all of these different prompts,
4:41
then you can run your eval pipeline on only that type of prompt and see if your system is
4:47
underperforming for certain types of questions. Custom datasets are an important tool for
4:52
personalizing your RAG application to the requests to your system processes. Incorporating them into
4:59
how you evaluate your system is the best way to improve the way your system responds to the
5:04
actual prompt and questions your users are asking.