0:00
Throughout this course, you've seen RAG systems built on top of text data, but these days,
0:05
information is stored in a huge variety of formats. Slide decks, PDFs, or images also
0:11
include valuable information that you'd ideally like to include in your knowledge base,
0:15
and make available to your LLM. Thanks to cutting-edge developments on multimodal models,
0:21
it's increasingly possible to build RAG systems that handle a wide variety of data types.
0:27
Let's have a look at how they work. A multimodal model is one that is designed to handle multiple
0:32
data types. The most common pairing is text and images, but audio and video are also possible.
0:39
A typical multimodal RAG system is one that can accept both text and images as prompts, stores
0:46
both text and image files in the knowledge base, and ultimately generates text responses.
0:52
In order to power these new capabilities, both the retriever and the LLM need to be updated to
0:58
have multimodal capabilities. Let's look at how each component needs to be changed.
1:04
The first component that needs to be made multimodal is the embedding model used by the
1:08
vector database. A multimodal embedding model is one that can embed multiple formats of data into
1:14
the same vector space. If you use this kind of model to embed both the words dog and puppy, you
1:20
would expect their vectors to be fairly close to one another, as with a text-only embedding model.
1:25
If you give the same model an image of a dog, however, that image's vector would also end up
1:32
in a nearby part of the vector space. If you embedded an image of a tree and the word tree,
1:38
those two objects would also be embedded close to one another, but in a different part of the
1:42
vector space. In other words, multimodal embedding models work just like text embedding models,
1:48
placing items with similar meanings closer together. Thanks to their design, however,
1:53
they can perform this same function with multiple types or modalities of data. Once you have a
1:59
multimodal embedding model, vector-based retrieval works in a very familiar way.
2:04
Both images and text from your knowledge base can be embedded into the same vector space.
2:10
When a prompt is received, that same multimodal model is used to embed the prompt, whether it's
2:15
an image or text. Then, vector search is completed as normal, returning the images or documents
2:22
whose vectors are closest to the prompt vector. The text and images retrieved from the knowledge
2:26
base can then be added to the augmented prompt as normal and sent along to the language model.
2:32
In order for a language model to process both text and images, you'll need to use a language
2:38
vision model. This kind of model works very similarly to a text-only LLM, but has the
2:44
ability to process images that have also been tokenized. In order to do that, the images must
2:49
be tokenized. A typical process for tokenizing an image is to break the image into separate patches,
2:55
which are each represented as a token. Depending on their resolution, images might be represented
3:01
somewhere on the order of 100 tokens on the lower end to approaching a thousand tokens on the higher
3:06
end. What matters here, though, isn't so much how many tokens are used, but rather the fact that
3:12
these models are designed so that both images and text can be converted into a token sequence,
3:19
just as with text-only models. Language vision models then work very similarly to standard LLMs,
3:25
passing this multimodal token sequence through a transformer that can develop a nuanced
3:30
understanding of both the text and images in the prompt and their relationships. The model then
3:36
typically will produce text tokens as output, responding to the initial prompt. Once you have
3:41
a multimodal embedding model and a language vision model, upgrading your RAG system to store both
3:46
images and text in the knowledge base is pretty straightforward. The high-level architecture
3:51
is essentially identical, but it can now handle both text and images. The nice thing about updating
3:59
a RAG system to handle images is that this enables your system to ingest many common file formats
4:04
that are readily converted to images. Slides and PDFs, for example, are easily treated as image files.
4:11
A challenge with these formats, however, is just how information-dense slides and PDFs can be.
4:17
A single page or slide can contain text, charts, captions, and images. A single vector would
4:23
struggle to capture all the nuance on one page of a PDF. In other words, you need to chunk your images
4:29
just like you would chunk your text. Initially, this was done with fairly sophisticated techniques
4:34
to detect different portions of a PDF page. These algorithms attempt to determine which
4:39
piece of the page is a chart, which is an image, which is text, and so forth. In practice, however,
4:45
these techniques are still pretty error-prone and finicky. A newer approach called PDF RAG
4:51
just splits every page into a grid of squares without worrying about whether those boundaries
4:57
fall at sensible locations. Each square is then embedded into a dense vector by a multimodal
5:02
embedding model. This means your page is represented by, say, a thousand vectors instead
5:09
of one. Vector search then works very similarly to Colbert. Each word in the prompt looks for its
5:16
best matching square on a given page. These scores are then added up to score the overall
5:21
page of the document. This approach is very flexible since any image can be split up into
5:26
a grid of squares. In practice, it also performs well at retrieval tasks. The fact that this
5:31
approach is so flexible and performs well means it's a promising direction for powering
5:36
multimodal retrieval. Its main downside is that it requires your vector database to store a massive
5:42
number of vectors. Nevertheless, vector database providers are increasingly implementing tools to
5:47
enable this kind of multimodal retrieval, and you should expect it to continue to get easier to build
5:52
RAG systems around multimodal knowledge bases. Multimodal RAG is still a cutting-edge technology
5:58
with rapid and active developments. Most LLM providers offer a language vision model,
6:05
while multimodal embedding models are relatively more experimental offerings.
6:10
That said, as you look to push the frontier of what your RAG system can do,
6:15
expect to see exciting and ongoing progress in the world of multimodal RAG.