0:00
Welcome to Retrieval Augmented Generation from Devo.ai.
0:03
Retrieval Augmented Generation, or RAG, is the most widely used technique for improving the
0:09
quality and accuracy of a large-language model's response. An OM starts off knowing only
0:15
information from maybe the public internet data it was trained on. So if you needed to answer
0:20
questions using facts drawn from proprietary data, say your own documents, RAG lets the model do
0:27
this by providing the model access to that additional data. This lets an LLM answer
0:33
questions with facts that it was not already trained on. For example, you may also have seen
0:39
a chatbot like ChatGP or Cloud or Gemini tell you it's searching the web to help answer your
0:45
question. This LLM is accessing additional information to try to make sure the response
0:50
is up-to-date and accurate. I'm excited to introduce your instructor for this course,
0:54
Zan Hassan. Zan is an experienced AI and machine learning engineer and researcher and educator.
1:00
He spent much of the last decade working at a handful of exciting AI companies like Weaviate,
1:06
which is a leading vector database company providing one of the key components of RAG,
1:12
as well as Together AI, which is a provider of LLM services.
1:16
Thank you, Andrew. I'm super excited to be here.
1:20
What I love about RAG is the fact that it provides a simple and practical way to focus the power of
1:26
large language models. The core idea of RAG is pairing classical search systems with the reasoning
1:33
abilities of large language models. With this course, we've tried to balance covering foundational
1:39
concepts underlying both search and LLMs and the practical tips for applying these concepts to
1:45
architect a high-performing RAG system. Even though the concept of RAG is not complex, there's
1:51
a zillion ways to implement it, and the design choices make a huge difference in accuracy and
1:56
speed of your system. You'll learn how to prepare your data to be used in this system, prompt your
2:02
language model to get the most out of that data, and evaluate actual user traffic to ensure you're
2:08
providing high-quality responses. So you're going to leave this course with a lot of practical
2:13
skills to build and tune your RAG system and have the foundational understanding of why these
2:18
techniques work. It's an incredibly useful skill set and has applications to a huge variety of
2:24
industries. I think RAG may be the most commonly built type of LLM-based application in the world
2:31
today. Large companies are using it to help their customers get answers to questions about their
2:36
products or help their own employees get answers to the company's internal policies or other
2:43
matters. Startups are also building RAG applications in many verticals like healthcare, such as answering
2:50
medical questions, or in education to help tutor students on a range of subjects and so on. One
2:56
interesting thing about RAG is that as LLM technology improves, RAG systems are also
3:02
rapidly incorporating these technologies. So for example, the recent generation of models have been
3:09
much better than those from one or two years ago at getting RAG systems to be more grounded in the
3:16
documents or contexts it's given, so that over the last year or so, it feels like the hallucination
3:21
rates of RAG systems have been steadily trending downwards. And reasoning models also let them
3:28
tackle much more complex questions and can reason on top of the provided context. And one interesting
3:35
change over the last couple years is as the input context window of LLMs has gone up, the hyper
3:41
parameter tuning, you know, what exactly do you insert into the RAG, how do you cut documents, the pieces,
3:45
the signal input context, the best practices, which Zan is really expert on, has been evolving as well
3:52
because now you don't need to squeeze so much information into a tiny little context window.
3:57
And as agentic document extraction and related technologies improve, you can now also more easily
4:02
build RAG systems on top of PDF files or slides or other types of documents, so you can build RAG
4:08
systems to more easily ingest and reason over and answer questions relating to broader sets of
4:15
materials that you may have. And more broadly, as teams are building more complex, multi-step agentic
4:22
workflows, RAG is often then one component in a complex agentic workflow where maybe on, you know,
4:28
step five or step seven of some internal enterprise workload, RAG gives the agent the information it
4:34
needs in order to process a document or reason about a customer request. Oh, I completely agree.
4:39
Even as the AI field continues to evolve rapidly, I don't think RAG's going anywhere.
4:45
LLMs will continue to benefit from access to high quality relevant data. I also think this course
4:50
gives a really strong foundation to work with all these cutting edge advances. We've included a huge
4:56
variety of advanced techniques in this course, from multimodal or reasoning models, like you mentioned,
5:02
to balancing approaches like RAG, fine tuning, and newer long context models. One technique that I'm
5:09
personally quite excited about is agentic RAG, or building systems that use multiple large language
5:15
models where each one handles a single part of a large workflow and has the agency to decide
5:22
what data to retrieve. This is right at the frontier of where companies are pushing the
5:27
performance of LLM based applications. I think the earlier generation of RAG systems was a human
5:32
engineer that would write a bunch of code, write a bunch of rules to decide, give the query, this is
5:37
how we take a long document, how we cut it into pieces, how we retrieve it, and we're going to take,
5:42
you know, seven pieces or something to put into LLM context. So it's really a human engineer
5:46
deciding what to give as context for the LLM to answer a question. And the thing that's really
5:52
interesting about agentic RAG is you can give an AI agent tools to retrieve information and then let
5:59
it decide, does it want to do a web search next? And if so, what keywords does it want to use for
6:04
the web search? Or maybe query a specific specialized database? And after retrieving the first round of
6:09
information, is it good enough? Or do you want to do a second round of retrieval? So these highly
6:14
agentic systems can then decide by themselves what information to retrieve to serve a specific
6:20
information need. And I find that to be an important way to make the systems much more
6:26
flexible and powerful. It gives them a way to deal with the messiness of the real world.
6:31
They mess up, they can route back and fix the approach that they're going with.
6:37
So going all the way from basic RAG to advanced agentic RAG, in this course, you learn about
6:45
this range of techniques, both from the core principles and the mental frameworks of how to
6:50
build these systems to the practicalities of how do you actually tune a hyperparameter of what is
6:55
the appropriate chunk size to cut a very long document into and how to manage context. And if
7:01
you are just starting out on the earlier phases of building out Gen AI applications, I think this
7:07
course will give you a good overview of not just RAG, but many of the components that go into RAG
7:14
that could be useful for other things you may build in the future as well. So I think that this course
7:21
will set you up absolutely to do RAG, but more broadly, to have a good foundation to think about
7:27
how to assemble many of the tools that we now have in Gen AI to build an application and to
7:32
evaluate it and to drive continued improvements. So far, Zan and I have chatted about RAG and why
7:38
we think it's important and why we think you benefit from learning about it. And in the next
7:44
video, Zan will present a high-level overview of what are the most important components of RAG,
7:50
so that whether you're building a standalone RAG system or building it as one component
7:55
of a more complex agentic or that type of system, you have that mental map for what are the things
8:00
you need to do to get an effective RAG system going. So let's take a look at the next video
8:05
to dive into the details of RAG.